# HW 2: Efficient Fine-Tuning with BitFit?

**Due: March 14, 11:30 AM**

For this assignment, please complete the _problem set_ found in `hw2-pset.ipynb`. The problem set includes coding
problems as well as written problems.

For the coding problems, you will implement functions defined in the Python files `train_model.py` and `test_model.py`, replacing the existing code (which raises a `NotImplementedError`) with your own code. **Please write all code within the relevant files and
function definitions**; failure to do this may break the rest of your code.

For the written problems, please submit your answers in PDF format, using the filename `hw2-written.pdf`. Make sure to
clearly mark each problem in order to minimize the chances of grading errors.

You do not need to submit anything for Problem 1a.

You are free to use any resources to help you with this assignment, including books or websites. You are also free to
collaborate with any other student or students in this class. However, you must write and submit your own answers to the
problems, and merely copying another student's answer will be considered cheating on the part of both students. If you
choose to collaborate, please list your collaborators at the top of your `hw2-written.pdf` file. If you choose to use ChatGPT or a similar AI assistant to help you with this assignment in any way, please include a file called `hw2-chatgpt-logs.txt` with a full transcript of all prompts and responses used for this assignment. Your use of AI assistants cannot involve generating images or any other content that cannot be included in a .txt file.

## Setup

You will need to complete your code problems in Python 3, preferably Python 3.8 or later. Apart from the standard Python
libraries, you will need the following dependencies:

* [NumPy](https://numpy.org)
* [tqdm](https://tqdm.github.io/)
* [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/)
* [🤗 Datasets](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/index)
* [🤗 Transformers](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/index)
* [🤗 Evaluate](https://huggingface.co/docs/evaluate/index)

Please refer to their websites for installation instructions.

## Submission

For your submission, please upload the following files to [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com):

* `train_model.py`
* `test_model.py`
* `train_results_with_bitfit.p`
* `train_results_without_bitfit.p`
* `test_results_with_bitfit.p`
* `test_results_without_bitfit.p`
* `hw2-written.pdf`
* `hw2-chatgpt-logs.txt` (if ChatGPT or another AI assistant is used).

The `.p` files are not provided in this repository; they will be generated by your code when you run it. Please use the exact file names described above, and do not upload any other files to Gradescope. Failure to follow the
submission instructions may result in a penalty of up to 5 points.

## Grading

The point values for each problem are given below. 

| Problem | Problem Type | Points |
|---|---|---|
| 1b: Understand BERT Inputs | Written | 10 |
| 1c: Understand BERT Hyperparameters | Written | 10 |
| 1d: Prepare Dataset | Code | 10 |
| 2a: Freeze Non-Bias Weights | Code | 10 |
| 2b: Set Up Trainer and Tester | Code | 20 |
| 2c: Set Up Hyperparameter Tuning | Code | 20 |
| 3a: Train Models | Code and Written | 10 |
| 3b: Test Models and Report Results | Code and Written | 10 |
| **Total** | | **100** |

### Rubric for Code Problems

Code questions will be graded using a series of [Python unit tests](https://realpython.com/python-testing/). Each
function you implement will be tested on a number of randomly generated inputs, which will match the specifications
described in the function docstrings. **You will be able to see the results of the unit tests on
[Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com) as soon as the unit tests are released.** Therefore, you are encouraged to debug and resubmit your code if one or more unit tests fail.

For code questions, you will receive:

* full points if your code runs and passes all test cases
* at least 5 points if your code runs but fails at least one test case
* 0 points if your code does not run.

Partial credit may be awarded at the graders' discretion, depending on the correctness of your logic and the severity of
bugs or other mistakes in your code. All code problems will be graded **as if all other code problems had been answered
correctly**. Therefore, an incorrect implementation of one function should (in theory) not affect your grade on other
problems that depend on that function.



### Rubric for Written Problems

For written problems, you will receive:

* full points if results are reported accurately and are accompanied by at least 1 to 2 sentences of thoughtful analysis
* at least 2 points if a good-faith effort (according to the TAs' judgement) has been made to answer the question
* 0 points if your answer is blank.

Partial credit may be awarded at the graders' discretion.
